boards/arm/ebf-imx6ul/README.md, before:


# EmbedFire i.MX6UL/ULL-EVK-PRO Board

## Usage

The board tested uses nand storage, for mmc, please use imx6ul-mmc-npi.dtb.

    $ sed -i -e "s/imx6ul-nand-npi.dtb/imx6ul-mmc-npi.dtb/g" boards/arm/ebf-imx6ul/Makefile

The kernel version tested is 4.19.35.

And the related dtb should be changed in the following sections.

### Switch to this board

    $ make BOARD=arm/ebf-imx6ul

### Compile

    $ make kernel-build
    $ make kernel-save
    $ make modules-install

    $ ls boards/arm/ebf-imx6ul/bsp/kernel/v4.19.35/
    imx6ull-nand-npi.dtb  zImage
    $ ls boards/arm/ebf-imx6ul/bsp/root/2020.02/rootfs/lib/modules/
    4.19.35+
    $ rm boards/arm/ebf-imx6ul/bsp/root/2020.02/rootfs/lib/modules/4.19.35+/{source,build}

### Configure your board

  Please connect the board to your host via usb cable and ethernet cable, then:

    $ minicom -D /dev/ttyUSB0
    ...
    npi login: debian
    Password: temppwd

    debian@npi:~$ ifconfig
    eth1: flags=-28605<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,MULTICAST,DYNAMIC>  mtu 1500
            inet 192.168.0.112  netmask 255.255.255.0  broadcast 192.168.0.255
            inet6 fe80::c40b:38ff:fe08:b2d1  prefixlen 64  scopeid 0x20<link>
            ether c6:0b:38:08:b2:d1  txqueuelen 1000  (Ethernet)
            RX packets 14  bytes 2527 (2.4 KiB)
            RX errors 0  dropped 1  overruns 0  frame 0
            TX packets 22  bytes 2978 (2.9 KiB)
            TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0

  As we can see, the board ip is `192.168.0.112`, now, let's allow ssh login as `root` (simply data uploading):

    $ sudo -s
    # passwd root
    New password: linux-lab
    Retype new passwd: linux-lab

    $ sed -i -e "s/#PermitRootLogin prohibit-password/PermitRootLogin yes/g" /etc/ssh/sshd_config
    $ service sshd restart

### Upload zImage and dtb

  Host or Lab:

    $ export board_ip=192.168.0.112
    $ export kernel_version=4.19.35+

    $ pushd boards/arm/ebf-imx6ul/bsp

    // upload zimage
    $ scp kernel/v4.19.35/zImage root@$board_ip:/boot/vmlinuz-$kernel_version

    // upload dtb
    $ ssh root@$board_ip "mkdir -p /boot/dtbs/$kernel_version/"
    $ scp kernel/v4.19.35/imx6ull-nand-npi.dtb root@$board_ip:/boot/dtbs/$kernel_version/

    // upload kernel modules
    $ scp -r root/2020.02/rootfs/lib/modules/$kernel_version root@$board_ip:/lib/modules/

    // update initrd.img
    $ ssh root@$board_ip "update-initramfs -u -k $kernel_version"

### Boot with new images

  Configure via `/boot/uEnv.txt`:

    $ sudo sed -i -e "s/uname_r=.*/uname_r=4.19.35+/g" /boot/uEnv.txt

    // nand
    $ sudo sed -i -e "s/dtb=.*/dtb=imx6ull-nand-npi.dtb/g" /boot/uEnv.txt
    // mmc
    $ sudo sed -i -e "s/dtb=.*/dtb=imx6ull-mmc-npi.dtb/g" /boot/uEnv.txt

    $ sudo reboot

  Boot directly via Uboot command line (for nand board), Stop after "ubi0: attached mtd2 (name "rootfs"):

    => setenv bootargs "console=ttymxc0,115200 ubi.mtd=1 root=ubi0:rootfs rw rootfstype=ubifs mtdparts=gpmi-nand:8m(uboot),-(rootfs)coherent_pool=1M net.ifnames=0 vt.global_cursor_default=0 quiet"

    => ubifsload 0x80800000 /boot/vmlinuz-4.19.35+
    => ubifsload 0x88000000 /boot/initrd.img-4.19.35+
    => ubifsload 0x83000000 /boot/dtbs/4.19.35+/imx6ull-nand-npi.dtb
    => ubifsls /boot/
              4722198  Fri Dec 25 20:25:35 2020  initrd.img-4.19.35+
    => bootz 0x80800000 0x88000000:4722198 0x83000000

  Boot directly via Uboot command line (for mmc board):

    TODO

## TODO

* Automate the uploading via scp (need allow login with root without password), required by `make boot`
* Document usage for mmc boards
* Enable ethernet in Uboot, for dhcp, tftpboot and nfs
* Enable otg in Linux System and document uploading via otg
* Enable booting with nfs rootfs, easier uploading

## References

* [EBF IMX6ULL Linux](https://github.com/Embedfire/ebf_linux_kernel)
* [EBF IMX6ULL Uboot](https://gitee.com/Embedfire/ebf_linux_uboot)
* [EBF IMX6ULL Document](http://doc.embedfire.com/products/link/zh/latest/linux/ebf_i.mx6ull.html)

Commit message:

kernel-upload: clean up its interfaces and document
Signed-off-by: Wu Zhangjin <falcon@tinylab.org>

boards/arm/ebf-imx6ul/README.md, after:


# EmbedFire i.MX6UL/ULL-EVK-PRO Board

## Usage

The board tested uses nand storage, for mmc, please use imx6ul-mmc-npi.dtb.

    $ sed -i -e "s/imx6ul-nand-npi.dtb/imx6ul-mmc-npi.dtb/g" boards/arm/ebf-imx6ul/Makefile

The kernel version tested is 4.19.35.

And the related dtb should be changed in the following sections.

### Switch to this board

    $ make BOARD=arm/ebf-imx6ul

### Compile

    $ make kernel-build
    $ make kernel-save
    $ make modules-install

    $ ls boards/arm/ebf-imx6ul/bsp/kernel/v4.19.35/
    imx6ull-nand-npi.dtb  zImage
    $ ls boards/arm/ebf-imx6ul/bsp/root/2020.02/rootfs/lib/modules/
    4.19.35+
    $ rm boards/arm/ebf-imx6ul/bsp/root/2020.02/rootfs/lib/modules/4.19.35+/{source,build}

### Configure your board

Please connect the board to your host via usb cable and ethernet cable, then:

    $ minicom -D /dev/ttyUSB0
    ...
    npi login: debian
    Password: temppwd

    debian@npi:~$ ifconfig
    eth1: flags=-28605<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,MULTICAST,DYNAMIC>  mtu 1500
            inet 192.168.0.112  netmask 255.255.255.0  broadcast 192.168.0.255
            inet6 fe80::c40b:38ff:fe08:b2d1  prefixlen 64  scopeid 0x20<link>
            ether c6:0b:38:08:b2:d1  txqueuelen 1000  (Ethernet)
            RX packets 14  bytes 2527 (2.4 KiB)
            RX errors 0  dropped 1  overruns 0  frame 0
            TX packets 22  bytes 2978 (2.9 KiB)
            TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0

As we can see, the board ip is `192.168.0.112`, now, let's allow ssh login as `root` (simply data uploading):

    $ sudo -s
    # passwd root
    New password: linux-lab
    Retype new passwd: linux-lab

    $ sed -i -e "s/#PermitRootLogin prohibit-password/PermitRootLogin yes/g" /etc/ssh/sshd_config
    $ service sshd restart

### Upload zImage and dtb

Host or Lab:

    $ export board_ip=192.168.0.112
    $ export kernel_version=4.19.35+

    $ pushd boards/arm/ebf-imx6ul/bsp

    // upload zimage
    $ scp kernel/v4.19.35/zImage root@$board_ip:/boot/vmlinuz-$kernel_version

    // upload dtb
    $ ssh root@$board_ip "mkdir -p /boot/dtbs/$kernel_version/"
    $ scp kernel/v4.19.35/imx6ull-nand-npi.dtb root@$board_ip:/boot/dtbs/$kernel_version/

    // upload kernel modules
    $ scp -r root/2020.02/rootfs/lib/modules/$kernel_version root@$board_ip:/lib/modules/

    // update initrd.img
    $ ssh root@$board_ip "update-initramfs -u -k $kernel_version"

### Boot with new images

Configure via `/boot/uEnv.txt`:

    $ sudo sed -i -e "s/uname_r=.*/uname_r=4.19.35+/g" /boot/uEnv.txt

    // nand
    $ sudo sed -i -e "s/dtb=.*/dtb=imx6ull-nand-npi.dtb/g" /boot/uEnv.txt
    // mmc
    $ sudo sed -i -e "s/dtb=.*/dtb=imx6ull-mmc-npi.dtb/g" /boot/uEnv.txt

    $ sudo reboot

Boot directly via Uboot command line (for nand board), Stop after "ubi0: attached mtd2 (name "rootfs"):

    => setenv bootargs "console=ttymxc0,115200 ubi.mtd=1 root=ubi0:rootfs rw rootfstype=ubifs mtdparts=gpmi-nand:8m(uboot),-(rootfs)coherent_pool=1M net.ifnames=0 vt.global_cursor_default=0 quiet"

    => ubifsload 0x80800000 /boot/vmlinuz-4.19.35+
    => ubifsload 0x88000000 /boot/initrd.img-4.19.35+
    => ubifsload 0x83000000 /boot/dtbs/4.19.35+/imx6ull-nand-npi.dtb
    => ubifsls /boot/
              4722198  Fri Dec 25 20:25:35 2020  initrd.img-4.19.35+
    => bootz 0x80800000 0x88000000:4722198 0x83000000

Boot directly via Uboot command line (for mmc board):

    TODO

## Auto uploading

A new feature is added to upload images via scp automatically, just need to:

  * Enable ssh login as root with `linux-lab` password (see above section: "Configure your board")
  * Disable serial port login password: `passwd -d debian`, this will also disable ssh login as 'debian', please use `root` instead.

Then, simply upload with following command:

    $ make kernel-upload
    $ make dtb-upload
    $ make modules-upload

## TODO

* Document usage for mmc boards
* Enable ethernet in Uboot, for dhcp, tftpboot and nfs
* Enable otg in Linux System and document uploading via otg
* Enable booting with nfs rootfs, easier uploading

## References

* [EBF IMX6ULL Linux](https://github.com/Embedfire/ebf_linux_kernel)
* [EBF IMX6ULL Uboot](https://gitee.com/Embedfire/ebf_linux_uboot)
* [EBF IMX6ULL Document](http://doc.embedfire.com/products/link/zh/latest/linux/ebf_i.mx6ull.html)
