boards/riscv64/virt/README.md, before:


# Risc64 Virt Usage

Works perfectly:

    $ make boot V=1

    $ make boot SHARE=1

    $ make boot ROOTDEV=/dev/nfs

Buildroot provides rootfs config and toolchain, mainline linux provides the
official kernel config, everything goes well. Qemu v4.0.0 has the risc64 board
support.

The only difference is riscv64 requires a proxy kernel to do some prepare
before running the real linux kernel. and the proxy kernel currently is
replaced by the opensbi project.

## References

* [Qemu RISCV Documentation](https://wiki.qemu.org/Documentation/Platforms/RISCV)
* [RISCV Software Status](https://riscv.org/software-status)
* [RV8: RISC-V simulator for x86-64 (Another simulator)](https://github.com/rv8-io/rv8)
* [RISC-V Debian](https://wiki.debian.org/RISC-V)
* [Running 64- and 32-bit RISC-V Linux on QEMU](https://risc-v-getting-started-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/linux-qemu.html)
* [RISC-V GNU Compiler Toolchain](https://github.com/riscv/riscv-gnu-toolchain)
* [Prebuilt GNU Toolchain](https://www.sifive.com/boards)
* [RISC-V Proxy Kernel and Boot Loader](https://github.com/riscv/riscv-pk)
* [RISC-V Open Source Supervisor Binary Interface](https://github.com/riscv/opensbi)
* buildroot/configs/qemu_riscv64_virt_defconfig
* buildroot/board/qemu/riscv64-virt/

Commit message:

risc: use qemu bios option instead of old hacking
newer riscv qemu support -bios option, use it instead of old method.

must update bsp with newer opensbi firmware too.

Signed-off-by: Wu Zhangjin <falcon@tinylab.org>

boards/riscv64/virt/README.md, after:


# Risc64 Virt Usage

## Basic Usage

Works perfectly:

    $ make boot V=1

    $ make boot SHARE=1

    $ make boot ROOTDEV=/dev/nfs

Buildroot provides rootfs config and toolchain, mainline linux provides the
official kernel config, everything goes well. Qemu v4.0.0 has the risc64 board
support.

## BIOS

The only difference is riscv64 requires a proxy kernel to do some prepare
before running the real linux kernel. and the proxy kernel currently is
replaced by the opensbi project.

Newer qemu and kernel support works with the standard -bios option with opensbi.

We can build one in Linux Lab with these commands:

    $ cd src/examples/
    $ git clone https://github.com/riscv/opensbi
    $ cd opensbi
    // for riscv32
    $ make all PLATFORM=generic LLVM=1 PLATFORM_RISCV_XLEN=32
    // for riscv64
    $ make all PLATFORM=generic LLVM=1 PLATFORM_RISCV_XLEN=64
    $ ls build/platform/generic/firmware/fw_jump.elf

## References

* [Qemu RISCV Documentation](https://wiki.qemu.org/Documentation/Platforms/RISCV)
* [RISCV Software Status](https://riscv.org/software-status)
* [RV8: RISC-V simulator for x86-64 (Another simulator)](https://github.com/rv8-io/rv8)
* [RISC-V Debian](https://wiki.debian.org/RISC-V)
* [Running 64- and 32-bit RISC-V Linux on QEMU](https://risc-v-getting-started-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/linux-qemu.html)
* [RISC-V GNU Compiler Toolchain](https://github.com/riscv/riscv-gnu-toolchain)
* [Prebuilt GNU Toolchain](https://www.sifive.com/boards)
* [RISC-V Proxy Kernel and Boot Loader](https://github.com/riscv/riscv-pk)
* [RISC-V Open Source Supervisor Binary Interface](https://github.com/riscv/opensbi)
* buildroot/configs/qemu_riscv64_virt_defconfig
* buildroot/board/qemu/riscv64-virt/
